# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-04-11

*April 11th, 2023*

## Attendees

* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* Joachim Dahlgren (Ericsson)
* José Luis Urien (Telefónica)
* Ludovic Robert (Orange)
* Rafal Artych (DT)

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business, review some topics raised in last meeting

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description | Discussion & Action Points |
| ----------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| Alignment with guidelines | [Issue #15](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/15), related to [Issue #12](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/12). We must adapt errors and properties to guidelines<br> - Waiting for new model for `ueId`/`device` to be consolidated in  [QualityOnDemand](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand) WG. Expected for next weeks | - **Keep waiting until proposal is merged in QoD** (no progress in the last 2 weeks, as QoD was cancelled) |
| Subscription for Location Area | [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18), [PR #27](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/27)<br> - Some feedback by Orange and Telefónica<br> - Some pending comments: Add DELETE and GET, support for subscription termination due to consent removal (new event?)<br> - Good progress in Commonalities<br> - Not far from the work done in Device location | - **Wait for outcome in Commonalities** (meeting planned April 12th with Akos & Pedro in order to close last comments - @Ludovic: hope to be able to make a proposal once validated by commonalities to device location) |
| Add `maxAge` | [Issue #34](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/34)<br> - Feedback from Telefónica<br> - LastLocationTime makes sense for B2B UB but team agreed that privacy constraint need to be considered <br> - Also proposed as [Issue #42](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/42), so closed as duplicated <br> - Wait for clear requirement to complete model | - **Call for uses cases from the team, in particular for fresh information** (Need to figure out how it should work (DT) - Discussion also in Telefonica group)|
| Postal Code Area | [Issue #39](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/39), [PR #47](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/47)<br> - Proposal by TEF to add Postal Codes as new type of area<br> - Discussion on the model, as other code could be used (like INSEE code in France)<br> - Model could accommodate to have several type of code, but our polymorphic model also allow us to be precise. <br> - Document that Circle is always supported |  - No additional requirement from Orange on INSEE code used in France<br> - **New PR proposed by Telefonica.** OK from Ludovic (Orange), Akos will take a look for DT |
| Provide location | [Issue #40](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/40), [Commonalities Issue #178](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/178)<br> - Also new [Issue #43](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/43) may be related<br> - Proposal by Ericsson, feedback by DT and TEF <br> - The use case is interesting. Get more details from Product teams<br> - We agree that is a specific endpoint - discussion about adding it to the current API or have a separate API. Version management should be taken into account. Raised an issue in Commonalities about "multiple endpoint API" vs "multiple API - Feedback from TEF | <br><br> - **Wait for more feedback from Commonalities**, and uses cases from Product teams |


## AOB

* In last meeting, DT mentioned to be currently working on an implementation against the NEF
  - To add implemenation code, we may need a new subproject per provider implementaion (PI)as QoD does.
  - **DT dev on NEF on hold. Bring topic back if status changes** 
<p/>

* Rafal: need to clean some branches already merged. **@José will do.**
<p/>

* **Next call is on April 25th.**