# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2024-02-13

*February 13th, 2024*

## Attendees

* José Luis Urien (Telefonica)
* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
* Fernando Prado Cabrillo (Telefonica)
* Ludovic Robert (Orange)
* Rafal Artych (DT)
* Javier Caaro Calabor (Telefonica)

Device Location minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business
  
## Open issues and PRs

### Review v0.2.0-rc3

- [PR](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/150) with fixes to:
  - [fix: correct $ref for SubscriptionEventType in geofencing](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/149)
  - Some other fixes and enhancements detected by linter (locally)

- Give some time review, merge and create RC3
- If nothing else is detected, then create release-0.2.0

Discussed during meeting:
Action: Team has to review the PR. We have to work offline to release the API before the MWC.
Minor typo fixes (on subscription)
Feedback on Linting tool run


### Review other Issues and PRs

#### Ongoing

* [Add Test Definition for location Retrieval #119](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/119/files)
  - Link with Commonalities here: https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/94
  - Review PR status and new comments
  - AP: Telefónica will provide a proposal updating a few aspects of Ludovic's proposal after checking with internal QA team. -> Still pending

Discussed during meeting:
- José explained that first we need to provide variable(s)
  - First then 'given' to prepare this/these variable(s)
  - Then the result with the expected responses 
  - +Additionnal step oculd be used (ad hoc for specific operation)
- GSMA will test this files as an input for Conformance & using Postman.
- José will contribut to commonalities for guidelines for Test Definition
  - Ludovic agreed on José proposal and will adapt the Device location retrieval file once José made his proposal.
  

* [Geofencing - Adding a value in Termination Reason value enum](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/141)
  - Positive feedback
  - How to proceed? Create PR and share with Commonalities or the open issue in Commonalities? 

Discussed during meeting:
- Ludovic will create an Issue in Commonalities.


* [Geofencing API - Add Subscription type 'area-left-or-entered' to subscribe to both event in one time](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/138)
  - No new comments
  - Discuss next steps in meeting

Discussed during meeting:
- we went through the proposal on the issue as 4 options are described
- We keep it open for discussion
- Alignement with device status was discussed.


* [Define guidelines for geofencing implementation](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/133)
  - No new comments.
  - Discuss next steps in meeting
  
  Discussed during meeting:
  - no progress - need team review

* [Geofencing API - Adding capability to manage max number of notification](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/111)
  - Moved to [commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/90)
  - New [PR](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/pull/131)
  - Review status

Discussed during meeting:
- in final step in commonalities - soon to be applied

* [Implement use of linting rule set for Device Location API](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/125)
  - Tested locally before creating RC3
  - Review status in Commonalities

Discussed during meeting:
- Rafal provided a briefting of the situation
  - Still in discussion in commonalities
    - Question to TSC if each projet has to be independant for applying the lintening. 
    - else José will apply the CI in our project

* [Geofencing API - Defining a standard behavior for first event](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/124)
  - Moved to Commonalities [Issue 140](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/140)
  - No comments

Discussed during meeting:
- No comments

* [Geofencing API - Add "format: uri" to notificationUrl](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/118)
  - Moved to [commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/93)
  - Recent comment to reactivate the discussion

Discussed during meeting:
- Team has to provide comment
- Rafal mentionned another issue about duration
  

### Open discussions

- No new comments since last meeting.


#### Administrative Code Area

* New [Issue #83](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/83), with formal requirements from GSMA Product track
  - New [document uploaded by TEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/files/12856149/AdminCode.Proposal.-.Draft_20230926.docx) with a proposal
* [action] Review this document. 
    - Not progress but during last call we agreed that this feature is not top priority right now but will be discussed next year.
  - Probably to keep it close with the (future) work for User Device count 
  - We can probably add our Area schemas in Commonalities

This item should be reopen after MWC.

#### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

* [Issue #85](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/85)
  - As requested by Joachim, issue will remain open until TEF uploads the document with more detail or the information is added to an API_documentation file to keep in the repo for future references.

## AOB

- Discuss if we keep next call for February 27th, 2024, as it is the MWC week. 
  - We keep it

<p>
