# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-09-26

*September 26th, 2023*

## Attendees

* José Luis Urien (TEF)
* Nicholas Venezia (centillion.ai) 
* Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
* Joachim Dahlgren (Ericsson)
* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* Ludovic Robert (Orange)
* Rafal Artych (DT)
* Jorge Garcia Hospital (TEF)
* Javier Carro Calador (TEF)


Device Location minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business

## Open issues and PRs


### Geofencing v0.1-wip (Subscription for Location Area) 

* [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18), [PR #74](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/74)
  - Notification pattern is still in progress in Commonalities to accommodate use of [CloudEvents](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/pull/56) -> Once the model close in Commonalities should be quick to craft the API.
  - Discuss progress in commonalities but close to be merged
    - José is OK and wait Pedro return to validate
    - Shilpa validated
  - Objective is to have the API ready for review for next meeting.


### New: Location retrieval - Allow additional area types in the response

* [Issue #94](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/94)
  - Other possible areas other than circle
  - Discuss which ones make sense: Polygon, Ellipse/EllipsoidArc, Areas including altitude?
  - Positive feedback from Telefonica in particular for polygon in a first step. Orange shares this feedback for Polygon.
    - José raised the point about multi-polygon
      - Joachin mentionned used of GMLC
    - **[question]** Question on how getting the altitude.
    - **[action]** Check how the network how the polygon is described (set of points) and then we can craft the P/R to improve the API with this new feature.


### Roadmap to Release v0.2

* The proposed process for a version is to have a version x.y-wip then x.y-rc and then finally released as x.y. This pattern is used in QoD.

* Align the Device Location API with the security schema as described in Unify specification of `securitySchemes`, `security` and scopes, [Commonalities Issue #53](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/53), [PR #57](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/pull/57)
  - [Draft PR #95](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/95) for location-verification, changing securitySchemes to openIdConnect. Waiting for resolution in Commonalities and Identity and Consent Management WGs.

* Next steps:
  - Then create v0.2-rc for location-verification, updating Changelog and Release notes.
  - Add location-retrieval v0.1.0-wip 
  - Add geofencing v0.1.0-wip, after discussion in Commonalities is closed.  

* Naming of the Release
  - Issue opened in [Commonalities Issue #60](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/60)
  - Proposal to use date format, such as Release 2023-09, but no agreement so far.
    - **[action]** José will check how this release management for a family is done within Edge API
    - **[decision]** Without formal decision we will use the date & lead the path

### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

* [Issue #85](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/85), related to [Issue #58](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/58)
  - TEF provided a doc with a proposal and use cases for the implementation of 'Partial' and matchRate

* Discussion during previous meeting:
  - Need to align on the matchRate formulae.
  - Problem with current proposal is that result will be false or partial but very few chance to get True result. The problem is more significant if we allow small areas as input.
  - After discussion seems that the team direction is to work on the PARTIAL answer and differentiate depending on the situation (see José document UC 3 & 4 for example). The PARTIAL  answer could be completed with additional information
  - **Think about improving PARTIAL information for next version**
  - Joachim had an internal review of the document - we have to write a document to explain how the matchRate is calculated. 
  - Discussion on the consent but probably not difference between retrieval & verification.
  - The problem we have here for Location Verification will be also very significant for future geofencing API. 
  - Probably we need to have more maturity on this with some real implementation
  - Nicholas Venezia provides feedback on how the Device location API is used within a podcast app to provide targeted ad. Nicholas demonstrated utilisation of location data.

### Administrative Code Area

* New [Issue #83](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/83), with formal requirements from GSMA Product track
  - Old [PR #47](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/47) closed.
  - Javier shared a proposal on this topic.
    - **[Question]** How to map postal code to geolocation/coordinate?
      - depending on the country - could be provided by local regulations
    - Javier will share the proposal in the GIT.

* No new comments or progress since last meeting, **no update or discussion during meeting**. Previous questions/doubts:
  - How to handle the 'diversity' of the 'geo' code that we can have in a given country.
  - How to discover what is implemented by each provider.
  - Error scenario must be defined in CAMARA if the area type requested is not supported by the telco.


## AOB
N/A 

<p>

**Next call is on October 10th**
