# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-02-14

*February 14th, 2023*

## Attendees

* Akos Hunyadi (DT)
* José Luis Urien (Telefónica)
* Noel Wirzius (DT)
* Rafal Artych (DT)
* 若山 敏康 ()



QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description | Discussion & Action Points |
| ----------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| YAML Update: add UNKNOWN for verify location | [PR #22](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/22)<br>- Review if ready for merging | Pending on a second approval, **please @bigludo7 review**  |
| Alignment with guidelines | [Issue #15](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/15), related to [Issue #12](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/12). We must adapt errors and properties to guidelines<br> - New error format approved in Commonalities<br> - New model for `UeId` is being discussed in [QualityOnDemand](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand) WG   | - **@jlurien to create PR to align errors to new error model**<br><br>- Wait until discussions on new model for `UeId` are completed in QualityOnDemand and align with them |
| Enhancing response to cover partial matches | [Issue #20](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/20)<br> - No feedback, so far. Discuss if ready for PR | - **@all Give feedback to issue** |
| Subscription for Location Area | [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18)<br> - No feedback, so far. Discuss if ready for PR  | - **@all Give feedback to issue** |
| Add `maxAge` | Pending action from last meeting:<br><br>**@Udaka triggers an issue & check with Geo fencing** | - **@NoelWirzius to open new issue** |


## AOB

* Next call is on February 28th.