# CAMARA DeviceLocation meeting - 2023-10-24

*October 24th, 2023*

## Attendees

[x] José Luis Urien (Telefonica)
[] Foo Ming Hui (Singtel)
[x] Cetin Alpaycetin (Vodafone)
[x] Joachim Dahlgreen (Ericsson)
[x] Rafal Artych (DT)
[x] Akos Hunyadi (DT)
[] Sébastien Synold (Intersec)
[x] Ludovic Robert (Orange)
[x] Fernando Prado Cabrillo (Telefonica)
[] Jorge Garcia Hospital (Telefonica)
[] Javier Carro Calador (Telefonica)
[x] Ramesh Shanmugasundaram
[x] Amit Ajuha
[x] Parichaya Shrivastava


Device Location minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Open issues and PRs
* Any other business
  

## Open issues and PRs


### Geofencing v0.1-wip (Subscription for Location Area) 

* [Issue #18](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/18), [PR #74](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/74)
  - Review last comments in PR
  - Good progress - few comments left:
    * Basepath should be enum and not default - Issue in Commonalities raised by José
    * Move to openId for security schema
    * Adding data in termination event
    * Safer to include the information in the event body
  
  - Ludovic will update the commonalities on subscription/event after first usage in Device location, Device status & Sim Swap.
  - Joachim raised the point about adding other area type --> will be done in future PR.


### New: Location retrieval - Allow additional area types in the response

* [Issue #94](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/94)
  - Review last [PR #100](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/100) adding polygon
  - PR ready:
    - limit to 15: OK for the team.
    - [action] for Ludovic: 
      - Add precision about close shape in the documentation for polygon. This is not required to provide twiwe a point.
      - Align with security schema (discussed in TSC but not finalized in the documentation)
      - Align with basepath with an enum


### Roadmap to Release v0.2

* The proposed process for a version is to have a version x.y-wip then x.y-rc and then finally released as x.y. This pattern is used in QoD.

* Align the Device Location API with the security schema as described in Unify specification of `securitySchemes`, `security` and scopes, [Commonalities Issue #53](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/53), [PR #57](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/pull/57)
  - [PR #95](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/pull/95) for location-verification, already merged after discussion in TSC.
  - Apply the same to location-retrieval and geofencing?

* Naming of the Release
  - Issue opened in [Commonalities Issue #60](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/60)
  - Review discussion in TSC and agree on a name
    - Discussed in TSC:
      - DT will write a proposal on managing the proposal both for the API yaml(s) and family
      - Have a global release for all CAMARA API for MWC 2024 


* Release content:
  - location-verification v0.2-rc
  - location-retrieval v0.1.0-wip 
  - geofencing v0.1.0-wip
  - Changelog and Release notes.

Points discussed:
* All this yaml will be under **0.2** family 
* [action] For location-verification, José will fix the basepath with enum instead of default.


### Behaviour when requesting too high precision

* [Issue #85](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/85)
  - TEF provided a doc with a proposal and use cases for the implementation of 'Partial' and matchRate

* New comments in Github from Joachim
  * 3 scenarios illustrated
  * [action] Review this comment.

### Administrative Code Area

* New [Issue #83](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/83), with formal requirements from GSMA Product track
  - New [document uploaded by TEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/files/12856149/AdminCode.Proposal.-.Draft_20230926.docx) with a proposal
* [action] Review this document.

## AOB

**Discussion on 3-legs pattern** raised by Joachim
  * What is the third leg ? Is it always the flow going to the responsible 'party' for 'consent' grant?
    * Let's take the example of a connected dog collar - The 'consent' should be provided by the user of the application tracking the dog.
    * This management of the responsible 'party' for 'consent' grant is managed in the Authorization Server (AS). The AS for a given request for a device, a purpose and a data clain, compute the legal base and 'execute' it. Depending on the legal base there is not always a interaction with the responsible 'party' for 'consent' grant.
  * Do we need to explictly provides in the request the device identifier as we can have it in the 'first leg'?
    * This is relevant for some UC but we have UC where the Device A could trigger location request for another device. 
  * We mentioned the documentation provided in Identity&Consent management WG.
    * We probably need to mention/point/refer this documentation in device location family API - We need to discuss how this information could be provided.
  * The discussion will continue in following calls and depending on the work progress in Identity&Consent management WG.

José will share the information to join the **Slack**

<p>

**Next call is on November 7th**
